+++
title = "What I read this week (October 18 - 24)"
date = 2020-10-24
categories = ["what I read"]
draft = false
+++


<!--more-->


[Why I don't recommend CSRankings.org](https://cacm.acm.org/blogs/blog-cacm/248078-why-i-dont-recommend-csrankings-org-know-the-values-you-are-ranking-on/fulltext) discusses the issues with the website csrankings.org (which attempts to rank academic CS departments). Those include the fact that it's anti-interdisciplinary (counting only pure CS conferences), anti-progressive (counting only the most well-established conferences), and US-centric.

> A common mistake in computer science is to take the easily computed answer as the correct answer to hard problems.We develop a new technology and then ask "Maybe this technology X can solve this problem Y." What we don’t often ask enough is, "Is this a good solution to that problem? What have we lost by using the technological solution?"

Absolutely true.

---

[Local-first software](https://www.inkandswitch.com/local-first.html) is an essay on the benefits of software that runs and stores data locally (on my computer), as opposed to, say, a server or the cloud. Local-first software means better data ownership. Local-first software means not being shut out when a service shuts down. 

The authors lay out guidelines for how "modern" applications can embrace local-first principles, ultimately creating more robust, longer lasting software.

Some personal context: I've been looking into a local-first knowledge management and note-taking software. [Notion](https://www.notion.so/) and [Roam Research](https://roamresearch.com/) both lack offline mode, and I feel hesitation subscribing to a service that will lock in my data and make migrating away challenging.

---

[System design interviews: some takes on posture](https://dballona.com/en/posture-in-system-design-interviews/) by Diego Ballona discusses the system design interview. He finds *collaboration* between interviewers and candidates to be helpful for assessing candidates. Some of the advice is standard: rephrase the objective, establish what is in scope, voice your assumptions. Other advice is more complex, like the entire section *Touch on adjacencies of the problem*, including operations, security and compliance, organizational management, and more.

> tl;dr: I find the system design interview the most insightful technical interview of all because it covers objective and subjective criteria. For the subjective aspects, I like collaborating with the interviewers, going wide first and then deep into detail, talking about what can go wrong beyond software, and touching on adjacencies of the problem at hand.

I quite liked this. I appreciated that it went into more depth than the average blog post on interviewing. A lot of this advice is specific to the system design interview, which was a signal that the post was well written.


